Chapter 5 (focus primarily on Sections 5.1–5.2)

Who invented the relational data model? When and where did they do their work?

	Ted Codd of IBM Research invented the relational data model in 1970. He wrote a paper on it which attracted immediate attention.	

Explain the following terms:
relation
	A set of tuples (d1, d2 … dn) where each element dj is a member of Dj, a data domain (Wikipedia)
attribute
	a name paired with a domain (column)
domain
	all the values which a data element can contain.
n-tuple
	An ordered set of n values (row)
NULL value
	The values of attributes that may be unknown or may not apply to a tuple
primary, foreign, candidate and super keys
	Primary Key – a candidate key whose values are used to identify tuples in the relation
	Candidate Key – Any column that can qualify as a unique key
	Super Key – A set of attributes where there are no two distinct tuples that have identical values.
referenced and referencing records
	Referenced –  Relation referenced by a referencing relation – see below
	Referencing – Contains a foreign key that references another relation only if the attributes in the foreign key have the same domain as the primary key attributes in the referenced relation, and a value of FK in a tuple t occurs as a value of PK in the other relation.

Are tuples in a relation ordered? How about attribute values in a tuple? Explain why or why not.

	They are not; Mathematically, elements of a set have no order among them, so tuples do not have order. Attribute values are ordered, as an n-tuple is an ordered list of n values; however, it is not as important that they are ordered so long as correspondence between attributes and values is maintained.

Can attributes have multiple values in a single n-tuple? Why or why not?

No, they cannot; each value is an atomic value, meaning it is not divisible into components—having multiple values would violate this.

Chapter 6 (focus primarily on Sections 6.1–6.2 & 6.4) — Make sure that you know how to:
Create tables with specified constraints, including primary/foreign key, not-null, domain and value-check constraints.
Use the DML commands: INSERT, DELETE and UPDATE.
Distinguish the ON DELETE actions: SET NULL; CASCADE.
